revision (#86)
arduino/arduino-pro-content: content/tutorials/portenta-h7/por-ard-lvgl2/content.md

# Making the interactive GUI 

> This tutorial will guide you to build a basic user interface using the LVGL, the USBhost and the RPC Libraries that you will have to download using the Arduino Library Manager. The setup for this tutorial requires you to:
> 
> 1. Upload a sketch file to the Portenta board where it converts the board into a usb host Device. 
> 2. Connect the board to a USB-HUB and connect an external monitor. 
> 
> Once the USB-HUB is powered externally, a graphical user interface with a button and a text-area will be displayed on the screen, then you will be able to interact with those items (widgets) by connecting a mouse and/or a Keyboard to the Portenta through he USB-HUB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will guide you to build a basic user interface using the LVGL, the USBhost and the RPC Libraries that you will have to download using the Arduino Library Manager. The setup for this tutorial requires you to:

1. Upload a sketch file to the Portenta board where it gets the data from the USB inputs trough the USB hub on the **M4 processor**.
2. Upload a sketch file to the Portenta board to draw the interface, and get the data of the USB inputs from the M4 processor trough RPC on the **M7 processor**.
3. Connect the board to a USB-HUB and connect an external monitor. 

Once the USB-HUB is powered externally, a graphical user interface with a button and a text-area will be displayed on the screen, then you will be able to interact with those items (widgets) by connecting a mouse and/or a Keyboard to the Portenta through he USB-HUB.
```

In order to create our interface, we will use both of the cores of the Portenta board (M4 and M7). In this case the M4 is going to be focused to receive the Mouse and Keyboard inputs, and send the information to the M7 trough RPC. It means that we will need to upload different sketches to the each of the cores:

   * M4
      * lvgl_mouse_m4.ino - getting the input data from mouse and/or keyboard and sending it through RPC to the M7 
   * M7
      * lvgl_interaction.ino - call the widgets.h and inputs.h custom made functions for the receiving data from the M4, and display the LVGL output
      * widgets.h - all the LVGL widgets on screen and events/callbacks of them, plus LVGL's mouse driver

> **Note:** Check the [Dual Core Processing tutorial](https://www.arduino.cc/pro/tutorials/portenta-h7/por-ard-dcp) for more info about how to program and access to the cores of Portenta

## 2. Create the structure and getting started

Lets start by creating the files. First, lets create a new file called "lvgl_interaction.ino" and include the following libraries:
```cpp
   #include "RPC_internal.h"
   #include "USBHost.h"

   #include "widgets.h"
```

> Then, in the `setup()` we need to initialise the some needed features (Video driver, LVGL, Inputs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, in the `setup()` we need to initialize some needed features (Video driver, LVGL, Inputs)
```

   }
```

**Note:** In order to be able to update the screen and the task manager, we must include the `lv_task_handler();` function inside the `loop()`.

## 3. Creating the interface

> We will create the screen interface in a new tab called "widgets.h". This interface will show on the screen a text field - where users can visualise the text inputs from the keyboard- and two buttons, the "submit" button that will throw a popup box with the text visualised on the text field, and the other that will launch a virtual keyboard from LVGL allowing the user to fully interact with the interface by using just a mouse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will create the screen interface in a new tab called "widgets.h". This interface will show on the screen a text field - where users can visualize the text inputs from the keyboard- and two buttons, the "submit" button that will throw a popup box with the text visualized on the text field, and the other that will launch a virtual keyboard from LVGL allowing the user to fully interact with the interface by using just a mouse.
```

### LVGL widget's events

> To understand the logic behind the LVGL interface, we need to know that it works with **callbacks**, also called **event handlers**, which are functions that are triggered when a specific event happen, e.g. the `myButtonEventHandler` function will be called when a there have happened a mouse click over a widget on the screen. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To understand the logic behind the LVGL interface, we need to know that it works with **callbacks**, also called **event handlers**, which are functions that are triggered when a specific event happens, e.g. the `myButtonEventHandler` function will be called when there has happened a mouse click over a widget on the screen. 
```
